- **Week 1**
	1. What are presentism, eternalism, and the growing block theories of time?
		1. **Presentism** is where only the now exists. The past and present do not exist. When we say that something happened in the past we can mean a number of things but they all relate to the present or we must refute that they happened at all which is a position some philosophers take. The same is true for the future, to say something has not happened yet, or that it will happen is to say something about the present. The main challenge to this position is special relativity and how we can say something in the past happened even if we have no evidence of it.
		2. **Eternalism** is when the past, present and future are all said to exist. So a past event is as real as our current experience. We may not have direct access to it but it never the less has the same reasons for existing as the present. The question of why we only experience the present and not the past or future is a problem for this theory.
		3. **Growing block theory** is when the past and present are real. As time passes the block of real objects and events grows. The future is not real because it is not fixed. This theory has the same problems as presentism but navigates why we do only experience the present. 
	2. What is the A-series and the B-series? 
		1. **A series** events are ones where their truth changes. For example, I am drinking coffee now is only true when I am doing that. Similarly St Petersburg was the capital of Russia, this statement is true but at some point was not true, when St Petersburg was the captital of Russia for example. 
		2. **B Series** events are static statements that are either true or not. I drunk coffee on the day of my graduation, or Moscow is the capital city of Russia in the year 2010. 
		3. **Reducability?** There are disagreements about if a A series events can be reduced to B series, in other terms is A or B series more fundamental. A theory states that A series are not reducible to B. B theory argues that B events are fundamental.
	3. What is 'fictionalism', and how does it relate to the truthmaker objection to presentism?
		1. **Factionalism** is the idea that the statement “Harry Potter is a wizard” can be true if it is presupposed that we are talking about a particular fiction, is the one written by JKRowling. It can also explain why the past is not real. “Dinosaurs roamed the earth” is true if we presuppose we are talking about the fiction of the past. The problem for this is that what makes the past different from JKRowlings? Just that more peoples entertain it, perhaps even believe it is really is true when it is not? 
		2. **Truth maker objection** is that there must be something in the world for a statement to be true. If “I have an iPhone” is true there must be an iPhone in existance and I must have a particular relationship with it. But if presentism is true then how can we say “The Roman Empire covered most of Europe” when there is no Roman Empire and no current Europe that the Roman Empire covered. Since there is no relating thing in existence, it is argued, presentism is an unsatisfactory theory.