About [[Being and Time]]

- Week 1
	- How is Hursserl’s bracketing’ or ‘phenomenological reduction’ intended to help with the problem(s) of intentionality?
		- Given that we have experiences about things, how exactly are they *about* anything. How is it that we can have mental states with an *aboutness* of anything? For one, if mental states are properties of physical things, such as a human or brain, then we must answer how it is that something physical can be about something that does not share it’s properties. Second, if mental states are not physical things, because they arise from a different substance then we must answer how a non physical substance can be about something that is physical. 
		- Another issue is how the mind can be about something which does not exist, such as a character in a novel. If the statement “I was talking about Harry Potter” is true, then Harry Potter must exist, for if you recognised that I was talking about something, that that thing must exist. One might say that HP has a different type of existance to say Tony Blair, but the..
		- Bracketing is meant to limit our enquiry into only the phenomena of our experience, by doing so not concerning ourselves with the objects that may give rise to our consciousness experience, rather the conscious experience of any such object. By close examination of our phenomena we should be able to grasp the ’Nomena’ or ‘Ideal sense’ of the objects of our experience. An answer to what it is that is fundamental to our experience of anything.
		- Rough
			- Intentionality can be understood in a few ways
				- How can something have intention
					- To understand this we need to understand what it is to have intention. I think a better word for this is referencing. If I was to reference something with my finger, I might point at it, in that way my pointing is referring to the thing I am pointing at. I might want the person across from me to know that the thing I am pointing at is of importance to me. My finger must then in some way be related to that thing it is pointing at. In this way we can make sense of our thoughts more generally. When I think of something in my mind, I am not just imagining something disconnected from the world around me, I am generally thinking about something which exists. If I think of my friend, it’s surely because my friend has an existence outside of my mind. You might say, when I think of Harry Potter, he has no real existance, he’s a character from a book. That is true, and there are answers for this, such as the Harry Potter I am thinking of is a fantasy. Yet that fantasy has some sort of existance, perhaps different from that of my friend. You may not find that convincing but the point is, is that our mental states are understood as being more than just the creators of isolated experiences. There is meant to be a medium that influences it. In other words, not my own, the mind is conditioned. It exists as it does because of the world that surrounds it. It has conditionality. It exists in reference to the world. It has an ‘aboutness’ that the world satisfies. The mind is about the world. 
					- If we are happy to accept that in at least some situations the mind is about the world, then we can say the mind has intentionality. From here we can build the problem. How is it that the mind can then be about something else? 
					- Problem A: Referencing at all, what is it that separates things that do not reference from those that do? Some solutions are that mental states and properties of physical, or that mental states and a different substance all together, and humans and other things with mental states share both mental and physical, such as Descartes imagined. Without diving into the issues here, these areas of philosophy are far from resolved.
					- Problem B: Referring what does not exist. When we think of Harry Potter, we may have theories for how it is possible that Harry Potter is said to exist, yet it’s not self evident as referencing appears at first. For example, if A references B is true, then A & B must exist… because something that does not exist can not be said to be doing anything, and it’s not possible to reference what has no existence. 
					- If we are happy to conclude that there are at least some problems, then ‘bracketing’ is Hurssels novel attempt to solve the problems of intentionality. ‘Bracketing’ is a method of looking at the world in a particular way. Much like how Descartes careful examination of his experiences and the method of radical doubt, Hurssels carefully examines his experiences but not with radical doubt or without radical doubt, rather without concern for what could be behind experiences. He set out to study, and understand experience and categorise it. Instead of looking at objects through consousness, he wished to understand consciousness by looking at the objects present in consousness. 
					- Through this method of bracketing Hurssel intends to find the ‘Noema’, or ‘Ideal sense’ of the objects. What he means is that the objects of our experience are sensed in particular ways. Phenomongy is meant to help us discover the essence, or thing that underlines all the ways in which we can experience an object. Ie we can hear what we can see, we can also talk of a thing being in the past and future, yet them still being the same thing. 
	- Husserl views the role of consiousness as one of discerning the ‘noema’ or the ‘ideal sense’ of the meaning of an experience. How might Husserl be construed to be a) an idealist b) a realist?
		- The Ideal sense is meant to underpin the different perspectives we have of the an object, such that we can have a different view of an object, yet it still be the same object.  If that thing which is the object is constructed by the mind, if it makes sense of distinct perspectives by unifying with the idea of one object, then this can be seen as an idealist view on Noema. On the other hand if the thing that unifies these perspectives is in some way independent on us, such that it is encountered in the real world but only in it’s many parts then Husserl would be an idealist. 
	- How does Heidegger view Husserl’s phenomenological method to be “unphenomenological”?
		- Heidegger claims that Husserl presupposes a subject object relationship, and this permeates his theories. He can no be phenomenoligist if we are to presuppose some relational necessity to our experience. Heidegger would attempt instead to remove this outlook from phenomenology. 
	- What is ‘Dasein’, and why does Heidegger find it uniquely well-placed for addressing the question of the meaning of Being?
		- Dasein is defined as the thing which has as a problem it’s own existence. This might be understood by the question, what is it I should be? Which also leads to the question, what is it that I am? Heidegger claims that without this caring nature for oneself, nothing else would come into being. Dasein exists, or has being, because it cares about itself. This is not meant to be an egoistic caring of oneself above all else, but at least a concern of oneself that all other concerns flow from. Dasein is meant to undercut all here to philosophy of being by positing something which can be understood, that has at it’s core actuality and potentiality, but not reality and illusion which has inplicity and explicitly been handed down in philosophy. There is no reliality or illusion in phenomenology, all phenomena can be said to be real, but how it comes to be a phenomena at all can be misunderstood. 
- Week 2
	1. How does Heidegger construe the relationship between intentionality, and being-in-the-world?
	2. What is the metaphysical assumption which Heidegger criticizes, for allowing for such problems as the problem(s) of intentionality to arise in the first place?
	3. What are some of the key distinctions between “present-at-hand” (vorhanden), and “ready-to-hand” (zuhanden)? What is the significance of our ‘absorbed engagement’ with the world? How do they relate to Dasein’s everydayness?
	4. What happens when the hammer/coffee machine breaks?
	5. Why should we be suspicious of the notion that Dasein’s ‘for-the-sake-of-which’ is best interpreted as being reducible down to the self-preservation of the human organism?
- Week 3
- 